In the last video, he came to the realization that we should probably be making use of JSON web tokens,
but now we need to decide how we are going to communicate that JSON Web token over to our backend services.
So in this video, I want to lay out a couple of further requirements of our application.
All right.
So first quick diagram here, just to give you a quick reminder on what goes on during the loading process
of an application into the browser.
When we are writing a normal React application, this might not seem relevant to this JSON web token
question at all, but trust me, it is extremely, extremely relevant.
So first, just a quick reminder of how a normal React application works.
I'm going to zoom in here.
We're going to start off at the very top.
So we are going to imagine that a user types out ticketing dev into their address bar and hits enter
as soon as that is done.
Your browser is going to make a request to ticketing dev.
Then with a typical React application, we are going to then immediately send back an HTML file that
is pretty much bare bones.
There's not really going to be anything inside there except for a little bit of HTML, some script tags,
some CSS tags, maybe some other stuff.
But for the most part, there's not going to be a lot of markup inside that file.
That file is then going to be loaded up by the browser.
The browser is going to see all those script tags and it's going to decide, Oh, I need to make a follow
up request to the backend client and get all the associated JavaScript files to actually boot up and
execute this React application.
So we're going to make a follow up request for some JavaScript files.
These are technically all separate requests, but whatever.
If there are multiple files, we're going to send back all these different JavaScript files and the
browser is going to execute the code inside them.
That is when our React application is going to actually boot up inside the browser.
And at that point in time we might need to make some requests to get some data that the React app at
that point might make a request over to the Order service asking for some data.
And the order service will respond with that order's data.
The React application will then take that info, build some HTML and displayed on the screen to show
it to the users.
So again, that is the normal flow of a typical React application.
Now, quick question for you.
We are taking a look at more or less three requests here.
The initial request, a follow up request to get some JavaScript files or CSS files or whatever else.
And then a third request right here to get some actual data that the application needs.
So considering these three requests, at what point in time do we need to somehow communicate authentication
information from the browser over to the back end?
Well, we probably don't really need to do it.
We don't really need to know if these user is logged in during the initial request.
There might be some scenarios where we do not even want to send a user a React application if they are
not logged in.
But for the most part, we usually say that we don't really care about sending out the source code for
a React app.
You might think to yourself, Well, Stephen, don't we want to secure the source code?
To be honest?
No, that's not something that's very commonly done in the production world.
So during that initial request, with a normal React app, we really don't care about authentication.
Do we need to know about authentication with JavaScript files?
Well, no, for the same reasons.
We don't really care if a user's logged in.
Sure, they could have some JavaScript code.
Go for it.
Take it.
I don't care.
The only time that we really care about whether or not a user is logged in is when they start asking
for data.
So we would really say that for a normal React application right here is really the soonest point in
time where we ever need to start to worry about sending authentication data over to the server.
We need to include authentication data.
So specifically this JSON web token inside of this request right here to our back end order service,
because the order service probably needs to know about whether or not this user is logged in and whether
they have permission to view this data or whatever else.
Okay.
So again, that request right there would probably be the soonest that we would want to think.
About including that JSON web token, and we would probably include that in the headers or some authorization
header of the request and the body of the request.
Or alternatively, maybe by using that cookie mechanism as well.
All three of these would work with a normal React application.
Now you'll notice that I'm stressing the term normal here.
So as a reminder, we are not really building a very normal React application.
Instead, we are building a server side rendered React application.
The idea behind a server side rendered React app is that we are going to make some initial request to
some backend server.
This backend server is then going to render out or build the HTML for our entire app and then send that
HTML file with all the content inside of it, all the relevant orders or tickets or whatever else already
rendered as HTML.
We're going to send that response back over to the browser.
The browser is going to get that HTML file and instantly have some content to show to the user on the
screen without having to make all those follow up requests to get some JavaScript files.
And then another request to get some data.
The whole reason we are using the server side rendering approach is for SEO purposes, search engine
optimization and also page load speed.
If our user has an older device or a mobile device for that matter.
Now let's think about what this really means to be able to send back an HTML file with all the relevant
content inside of it from the very first request.
That means that our client, whatever we built here, this next JS application, that's how we're going
to do this server side rendering stuff.
We're going to use a framework called Next.
JS That means that this next JS process right here is going to have to fetch some data.
And so that means that that thing is going to have to reach out directly in one way or another to our
order service or the ticketing service or whatever else.
It needs to get that information so it can immediately respond with some relevant content.
So with our approach, you're using server side rendering.
Without a doubt, we need to know authentication information with the very first request, this very
first request right here.
We need to communicate that JSON web token.
So that very first request needs to have that authorization header or a token in the body or the token
inside of some cookie or something like that.
Now this really presents a big issue.
Let me tell you why.
When you type in, say, google.com into your address bar and hit enter, Google has no ability to run
any JavaScript code on your computer before sending you in HTML file.
When you hit enter, the first thing that's going to happen, you're going to get back in HTML file
and inside that HTML file, we can have some JavaScript code or a reference to a script tag to load
up some code.
And then at that point in time, Google can start to reach around and try to find a token stored on
your device or something like that.
But the point is that during that initial page load request, when we press enter in our address bar
to go to some domain, we cannot customize that initial request in any way.
We cannot somehow execute some JavaScript code ahead of time or anything like that.
So that has a really big impact.
That means that we cannot run some custom code to intercept that initial page load and try to append
an authorization header in that request.
We cannot try to add in a token to the body of the request.
So that means that both of these methods of sharing the JSON web token with our backend server go out
the window when we are doing server side rendering.
If we want to tell that server who we are or communicate any information during that initial page load
request, that information absolutely, positively has to be stored inside of a cookie because only
this cookie, this cookie right here, that is the only way for us to somehow communicate information
from our browser to that back end during the initial page load.
Now, having said that, there is technically a very small corner case, so we could get around this
by using service workers, but that's really way outside the scope of what we're doing here with our
React application.
And in general, service workers is a pretty big architectural change to our React application and it
would require a lot more integration with next G.
So that's really something we're not really going to consider here, even though I just want throw it
out there technically as a workaround for this.
So long story short, because we are doing server side rendering and because this first request needs
to have authentication information and because we cannot customize that request in any way to try to
attach on an additional header or some information inside the body, we have to communicate.
Our Jason Web token inside of a cookie.
It's a hard requirement.
Yet.
So at this point, we've essentially established that we're going to use a JSON web token and it's going
to be stored inside of a cookie.
And that's why a little bit ago, I made kind of a big deal about reviewing the different differences
between cookies and JSON web tokens, because, again, a lot of time when we hear about cookie based
authentication, we would think, oh, this is something totally different than a JSON web token.
No, it's not.
Cookies are a transport mechanism.
There's something we use to move information around.
We can store on a web token or move a JSON web token around inside of a cookie.
But whenever you hear about cookie based authentication, the assumption a lot of engineers make is
that we're somehow creating a customized token or something like that and storing inside of a cookie.
Yeah, that's totally valid.
We could totally do that.
But it's not mutually exclusive with using JSON web tokens.
We can use cookies and JSON Web tokens together, and that's exactly what we are going to do to solve
this server side rendering issue.
All right.
We've gone through a couple of very long videos now.
I apologize for the duration, but we are essentially all done with the background on this authentication
stuff.
So we're going to take a pause right here and start to build out our authentication system for real
in the next video.